---
title: Privacy
permalink: /privacy/
description: ""
variant: tiptap
---
<p>This is the official website for Mayflower Secondary School.</p><p>We may use “cookies”, where a small data file is sent to your browser to store and track information about you when you enter our websites. The cookie is used to track information such as the number of users and their frequency of use, profiles of users and their preferred sites. While this cookie can tell us when you enter our sites and which pages you visit, it cannot read data off your hard disk.</p><p>You can choose to accept or decline cookies. Most web browsers automatically accept cookies, but you can usually modify your browser setting to decline cookies if you prefer. This may prevent you from taking full advantage of the website.</p><p>If you provide us with personally identifiable data,</p><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>we may share necessary data with other Government agencies, so as to serve you in the most efficient and effective way unless such sharing is prohibited by law.</p></li><li><p>we will NOT share your Personal Data with non-Government entities, except where such entities have been authorised to carry out specific services.</p></li><li><p>To safeguard your Personal Data, all electronic storage and transmission of Personal Data is secured with appropriate security technologies.</p></li></ol><p>Personal Data may be collected for the following:</p><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Application to admission to the school;</p></li><li><p>Educational and student care purposes;</p></li><li><p>Administrative purposes;</p></li><li><p>Verification and update;</p></li><li><p>Security purpose.</p></li></ol><p>Please contact&nbsp;us if you have any enquires or feedback on our data protection policies and procedures.</p>